people ask me questions like you know do
you think God is real and a question
like that always pigs the question for
me is like well what the hell do you
mean real like what makes something real
and you know you could say
tangibility um although that's only one
dimension of what makes something real
it's like I think what makes things real
in the final analysis is probably death
and in the in the example you used of
the silhouette
which is a very famous example with
regard to birds the silhouette traveling
in One Direction that signifies death
reliably right over a very long span of
evolutionary history and any creature
that didn't respond to that silhouette
was at a much more at a much higher
probability of being picked off so then
one of the things you might note and
this is where the postmodernists got
things like dreadfully wrong and where
the large language models have drifted
into insanity
so imagine that there's a statistical
relationship between Concepts that's
okay so then you might say well what
gives that statistical relationship
reality and the postmodern types would
say well it's just arbitrary cultural
construction but it's not because there
are patterns of relationships between
events that are part and parcel of the
world per se and some of those need to
be accurately mapped by the conceptual
system or you
die and so I would say the like the the
ideas that ring most true to us that
grip Us in this sort of archetypal way
are ideas that bear directly on our
survival whether we recognize it or not
they strike a cord within us like here's
a good example we'll shift sideways for
a minute
started to
understand whether you're feeling
stressed or anxious or simply seeking a
moment of peace and Tranquility the
Hallow app has something for you hallow
offers an incredible range of guided
meditations and prayers that are
designed to help you deepen your
spirituality and strengthen your
connection to God with hallow you can
embark on a journey of exploration
diving into different themes and types
of prayer and meditation from gratitude
to forgiveness each session offers a
unique experience sparking your
curiosity and deepening your spiritual
understanding choose different lengths
of meditation to fit your schedule
whether you have a few minutes or an
hour this flexibility puts you in
control of your own spiritual journey
with its user-friendly interface and
hundreds of guided meditations the hall
app has quickly become a go-to resource
for people seeking spiritual growth and
healing you can download the app for
free at hall.com Jordan set prayer
reminders and track your progress along
the way Hall is truly transformative and
will help you connect with your faith on
a deeper level so what do you waitting
waiting for download the hall app today
at hall.com Jordan that's hall.com
Jordan hall.com Jordan for an exclusive
3-month free trial of all 10,000 plus
prayers and
meditations started to understand why so
I'm on a tour right now we who wrestle
with God and it's focusing on biblical
stories I'm trying to explain I'm trying
to understand what they mean and then
talk about that so other people can
understand in so far as I'm able
to and one of the Striking meta themes
of the biblical library is the necessity
of sacrifice right and so I've been
trying to understand first of all what
what it means to sacrifice it it means
to give up
something
that's desirable for something that's
more desirable it's something like that
it's it's something higher and it's
higher because
it's it it's it extends over a long
longer period of time and it includes
more
people and so like sacrifice is the
basis of community well why well it's
obvious Russell as far as I can tell
it's like if you're in a communal
relationship which is any relationship
obviously then you're giving something
up that's immediate to
you to establish and maintain the
relationship right so it's a sacrificial
gesture and once you understand that
once you understand that sacrifice is at
the basis of community the question
immediately arises which is well what's
the most effective form of sacrifice and
the the this biblical story Old and New
Testament together is actually an
examination of
sacrifice per se it's an attempt to
spiral down to the core of what
constitutes well you might say the
sacrifice that's maximally effective
maximally acceptable to God but it it's
something like what sacrifices by
necessity at the core of community I
also don't think there's any difference
between that and cortical maturation by
the way I think they're identical
Concepts because as you mature from you
know istic power mad
2-year-old what happens is that you
integrate modes of attention and action
that facilitate your longer term
survival but also your inclusion within
more and more complex webs of social
Community that's all
sacrificial good God now there's a lot
of Jordan Peterson 101 there's a lot of
hits running simultaneously here JP
because we've already already touched on
the idea of chaos and the necessary
inevitable emergence of patterns within
chaos and it seems that you are positing
to a degree that this CA chaos is
analogous to perhaps the collective
unconscious and some of the patterns
that are emerging in AI models even with
the biases evident within them are an
indicator of how how these patterns
emerge within a container and I suppose
to say a container is to indicate that
we're acknowledging an absolute we've
moved from this idea of a collective
unconscious and and patterns emerging
within chaos into sacrifice which
obviously another great Jordan Peterson
theme and as you say perhaps the
overarching theme of The Bible my
contribution to this incredible amount
of information that you are relaying it
has to do with where might one's
intention carry you in so much as it
seems that in this process of maturation
and and one and a personal relationship
with sacrifice how that develops and
evolves it seems to me is when one
starts to acknowledge that there is not
when you use the phrase immediately
beneficial that when we're referring to
immediacy we are talking about both
spatial and temporal immediacy and we
might have to consider that when dealing
with the sublime as surely the Bible is
is that even these categories are called
into question the most basic and taken
for granted categories of any temporal
creature will have to be challenged this
perhaps helps me to understand how the
ultimate sacrifice as rendered in the
New Testament and and and and most I
suppose would regard as the defining
Christian image the the image of
sacrifice can tackle the complex idea of
The Pact that is made by the sacrifice
of the man God because I I as I as I
explore and attempt to understand
Christianity more deeply the this the
the nature of the Triumph the father and
the Son and the Holy Spirit and the
nature of this pact is something that
I'm mulling over and I feel that the
reason I can't reach resolution is
because it's irresoluble because I I ask
that when there is absolute
dominion and omnipotence with whom might
a pact be made and I starting to
conclude that it must be a kind of Cohen
that you know that that all is coming
from the same
Source yep yep y because otherwise how
can it be packed well I can tell you a
story about that and you tell me what
you think about it that's a very good
question because the other the thing
you're pointing to too which is
[Music]